- [Instructor] Spring Boot: Actuator
is one of the tools that I have found
invaluable when working with Spring Boot
applications, especially in a distributed
microservices based environment.
Actuator in Spring Book 2.0 however,
had a major overhaul and this is not a little,
I mean when I say major, this is a big deal.
There are actually breaking changes
in this upgrade and that is with respect
to custom tooling.
So if you had tools built within your CICD pipeline
or within your deployment strategy,
or within your containerization framework
that was relying on components of Spring Boot: Actuator
most likely when you do this upgrade
you're going to have to make changes to those.
Because it is that different.
The URL itself has been restructured
which alone breaks a lot of those tools.
But access to that component tree
and the way that things are set up
has all changed as well.
We also now have HAL support on all
of our endpoints by default and that is
really valuable if you're jumping around
within the structure itself.
If you write custom endpoints you will
have to make changes to support the new model.
The @Endpoint annotation is what will
expose these custom endpoints.
We also have the ability to now provide
@ReadOperation, @WriteOperation, and @DeleteOperation
as appropriate, especially when dealing
on the JMX side.
We can also use the endpoint web extension
or endpoint JMX extension annotations
for technology specific enhancements
to our endpoints.
Now, there's some additional support
that was added with the Actuator, so it wasn't
all just a revamping of the structure of it.
This additional support added makes sense
if you're dealing with reactive applications.
So we now have support for Jersey resources
within an Actuator context.
It's not just Spring MVC or JMX.
And if you're doing reactive, we now
have a handler mapping that's custom
specifically for Actuator on WebFlux applications.
The other big area other than URLs that made changes
is the way that Actuator Security works.
If you had written custom security hooks
before to deal with some of the limitations
of Actuator in 1.5, most of those
are going to be completely different now.
Actuator Security is now not a separate
security auto-config.
It's tied into your default security auto-config,
which makes a lot of sense because now
we can manage it through that security context.
There is no more management.security properties.
That is all gone.
The sensitive flag's also no longer supported.
And all of the property structures have changed.
In fact, the default exposure of all
of the endpoints has changed as well.
So not only the security, but the
visualization has changed.
And I highly encourage you to take a look my course
Spring Boot Essentials 2.0 to actually
take a look at how Actuator changed in
much more detail.
And of course, there's always the documentation
that you can read.